# Final-Project-Transforming-and-Analyzing-Data-with-SQL

## Project/Goals
To provide insight on revenue by product as well as data on how each visitor to the site interacted with the products.

To find out when they visited, where they were based, how many pages they viewed, how long they stayed on the site, and the number of transactions they entered.


## Process
Step 1 - I tried to understand each tables and columns so as to find the relationship between the tables. Note: I observed that the datasets did not have documentation and description for each columns which made it a little difficult to understand the dataset
Step 2 - I started by finding out what columns to use for primary and foreign key in order to establish a relationship between the tables. I used subsequiries with the WHERE functions to match rows with similar records ie visitid, fullvisitorid and productsku and assigned primary and foreign key constraints
Step 3 - I performed data cleaning by converting the character columns to mumeric
## Results
The information i can extract from the dataset is the location of visitors and the type or categories of products they purchase on the internet, and revenue generated by on transaction.



## Challenges 
The challenge was trying to identify each columns and the assumptions on how they contribute to the table or dataset. A proper documentation on what each column stands for or represent will go a long way to help understand the tables and datasets.

## Future Goals
Verify the documentation to understand the columns and what they represent and set appropriate data type for data analysis.
